Add the `osu!monthly, December 2022` news post (#8570)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2023-01-01-osumonthly-6.md

Starting off the list, we find [Motion](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3885626)'s play on the 1.1x speed difficulty of [Hug and Kill](https://osu.ppy.sh/scores/fruits/210787391), a map infamous for the insane speed sections that very few players can even pass. Nevertheless, Motion shreds through all the speed section and almost clutches the FC, however even with his 2 misses he beat the previous best misscount by 20.

Next up we have Motion's 4 miss on the highest difficulty of [XHRONOXAPSULE](https://osu.ppy.sh/scores/fruits/210576459), a map that currently sits as the ranked map with the highest star rating in the game, coming in at 10.07 stars. The scariest and toughest part of this map is definitely the end section which features 277bpm antiflow patterns, what makes this play so "special" is that he actually hit the hardest part of the map, a section that no other player had hit before, but failed at a previous, easier section, turning this play into a reverse choke. However, this isn't the play that sits in the leaderboard, since shortly after Motion would set yet another high score with better combo but 3 more misses, all located at the end of the map.

> The [Shin dan](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/884597#fruits/1872971) might just be the hardest map compilation in CTB history. After all, surviving through a 10.43 star map that lasts for almost 10 minutes doesn't seem like an easy feat, however, after a great community effort, [ArMa79](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4982799/fruits) claimed the first clear on this map, which in this context means, obtaining a 99% on the map. This isn't the end of the story though, as only a couple months later, Motion too would rise up to the challenge, sniping ArMa79's score in the process and setting one of the best plays of 2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Shin dan](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/884597#fruits/1872971) might just be the hardest map compilation in osu!catch history. After all, surviving through a 10.43 star map that lasts for almost 10 minutes doesn't seem like an easy feat, however, after a great community effort, [ArMa79](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4982799/fruits) claimed the first clear on this map, which in this context means, obtaining a 99% on the map. This isn't the end of the story though, as only a couple months later, Motion too would rise up to the challenge, sniping ArMa79's score in the process and setting one of the best plays of 2022.
```

> The [Shin dan](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/884597#fruits/1872971) might just be the hardest map compilation in osu!catch history. After all, surviving through a 10.43 star map that lasts for almost 10 minutes doesn't seem like an easy feat, however, after a great community effort, [ArMa79](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4982799/fruits) claimed the first clear on this map, which in this context means, obtaining a 99% on the map. This isn't the end of the story though, as only a couple months later, Motion too would rise up to the challenge, sniping ArMa79's score in the process and setting one of the best plays of 2022.

Reviewer 2: no link to the play?

Author: https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/8570/commits/51385943ddb319ef202a6c8ca03aa2b2ff6467a2

[ExGon](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/214187)'s score on [Ded_ed](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1705910#fruits/3800941) is probably the most unusual and shocking play set this year, but what makes this play so interesting? From an outside perspective, this map may just look like an easy 33 second, 3 star map, but this couldn't be further from the truth. This map features an astoundingly high CS 7, combined with strange pixel patterns that requires immense precision that only become harder after applying HR. If this already sounds hard, wait until you hear that he did all of this while using flashlight, absolute madness!

> When a player as good as [YesMyDarknesss](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4158549) takes over 2000 attempts to fc a single map, you know they mean business. This play on [Palace of Melancholia](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1596787#fruits/3261247) isn't just one of the best of this year, but one of the best HR scores ever performed, every single section of this map is absolutely brutal, requiring immense catcher control and consistency. However, this is not the end of the story for YesMyDarknesss, as to this very day he's still trying to get another FC on this map, but this time with HDHR, having invested yet another 1000 attempts on this quest, we wish him the best for this grind in 2023!

Reviewer 2: no link to the play?

Author: https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/8570/commits/51385943ddb319ef202a6c8ca03aa2b2ff6467a2

> This honorable mention is dedicated to what might be the worst choke in CTB history, Motion's play on the [World End difficulty of Sendan Life](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1431102#fruits/3881698) shows a level of speed and control that was thought to be impossible. Motion holds combo until the very end of the map, where a chain of unfortunate misses would set an end to one of what may have been one of the greatest scores of all time, nevertheless, after a few more attempts, motion was able to submit an S rank on the map, far from the FC he wished for, but still a play worth of a mention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This honorable mention is dedicated to what might be the worst choke in osu!catch history, Motion's play on the [World End difficulty of Sendan Life](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1431102#fruits/3881698) shows a level of speed and control that was thought to be impossible. Motion holds combo until the very end of the map, where a chain of unfortunate misses would set an end to one of what may have been one of the greatest scores of all time, nevertheless, after a few more attempts, motion was able to submit an S rank on the map, far from the FC he wished for, but still a play worth of a mention.
```

#### SEV handbook added to the wiki

The way in which the BNs were judged could seem incomprehensible sometimes for the general public until very recently, since the [SEV rating](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team/SEV_rating) has been added in the wiki. From the different punishable omissions, to the severity applied to each, everything is now detailed there (although in reality, SEV rating adapts to each case).

### Mapping highlight

Although, like most osu! players, you may be content with the beatmaps already installed on your computer, new extraordinary and trendy beatmaps are released every month and pass the ranked status. So we decided to add this new section to the monthly to keep you up to date with the most popular beatmaps among mappers, players and even music enthusiasts.

By the way, even if we don't mention all the beatmaps that have been ranked this month, you should know that they are all great, and worth a visit. So don't hesitate to take a look at the beatmap section of the osu! website and check out the most recent beatmaps!

> #### Mighty Morphin Power Rangers by Sytho - Community's favorite

Reviewer 2: `{artist} - {title} mapped by {mapper} - {category}` for these ty

Author: https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/8570/commits/56a855c547e8d29a8d857d7c51a1de9310ff21a2

### Mapping around the community

#### Community Mentorship Program

Ever since 2016, we see this wonderful [Community Mentorship Program](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1622724?n=1) run couple of times every year, and it serves to help future mappers, modders and storyboarders to develop their talent with the help of people more experienced than them. Although the mentee applications should have been closed around the new year, we should see the Spring cycle start very soon, so stay tuned for a future newspost if you want to participate in the project as a mentor or mentee!

#### Christmas Queue

> For the past 11 years, the [Christmas Queue](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1687778?n=1) has been returning every year to rank beatmaps related to Christmas during this festive period, and this year is no exception! For those who don't know what it is, it's a modding queue that gathers a lot of mappers and modders (including BN's) from the community in order to make as many sets as possible rankable on the Christmas theme. A good tradition that encourages mappers to make Christmas music to celebrate this holiday!

Author: @Pisapou FYI for this

- [ALTITUDE](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1684016?n=1): This skin contains a nice mix of glowy minimalism and grunge aesthetics, with great use of techniques commonly seen in UI design
- [io15](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1688412?n=1): Being very recently finished, this skin based around a Hololive VTuber named Airani Iofifteen manages to show off its flat abstract theme quite well, while also being reinforced with nice patterns and paint splashes
- [INGENIUM X](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1697586?n=1): A skin with a minimalist approach inspired by Ingenium from My Hero Academia, with bold shapes and gradients mimicking the heat levels seen on thermal cameras

Check out a showcase of all of the skins below:

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/videoseries?list=PLA2Nwtxa4WMqd2iI0wTjLUeWU8Gudhnuv" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> If you want to get into skinning but don't know where to start, feel free to drop a post under the [discussion thread](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1612258), check out the [skinning tutorial](https://skinship.xyz/tutorial/introduction) or ask away on the [skinship Discord server](https://discord.skinship.xyz/)!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to get into skinning but don't know where to start, check out the [skinning tutorial](https://skinship.xyz/tutorial/introduction) or ask away on the [skinship Discord server](https://discord.skinship.xyz/)!
```
there is no discussion post, small mistake from copy pasting from contest newsposts

## Did you know?

Anyone's who remotely familiar with osu! is surely aware of [Mismagius'](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/19048) and [ztrot's](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6347) [Can't Defeat Airman](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/24313#osu/104229), one of osu!'s most played maps of all time. You might also know that there's another [Can't Defeat Airman](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/24084#osu/82033) set by [Sushi](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/43108), but did you know that they were supposed to be a part of the same mapset?

> That's right, originally the map by Mismagius and ztrot were supposed to be a guest difficulty on Sushi's mapset, however due to multiple reasons, some of them being that the map was considered too hard to be ranked at the time (so it would have to be [approved](/wiki/Beatmap/Category), and Sushi felt like the guest difficulty would overshadow his entire mapset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That's right, originally the map by Mismagius and ztrot was supposed to be a guest difficulty on Sushi's beatmap. However, this didn't happen due to multiple reasons, some of them being that the map was considered too hard to be ranked at the time (so it would have to be [approved](/wiki/Beatmap/Category) instead), and Sushi feeling like the guest difficulty would overshadow his other difficulties.
```

> Thanks to [Kurboh](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/15243233) for providing this cool fact, you can view the sources for the fact here: [1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/43115?n=12), [2](/wiki/shared/news/2023-01-01-osumonthly-6/didyouknow-dec22.jpg)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thanks to [Kurboh](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/15243233) for providing this cool fact. You can view the sources for the fact here: [1](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/43115?n=12), [2](/wiki/shared/news/2023-01-01-osumonthly-6/didyouknow-dec22.jpg).
```

## Monthly community quiz

> Congratulations to [squidstain](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11073207) for being the first person to answer last month's question and score themselves 1 month of osu!supporter!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Congratulations to [squidstain](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11073207) (as expected of an [osu!trivium](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Contests/osu!trivium_Quiz/2021) Champion) for being the first person to answer last month's question and score themselves 1 month of osu!supporter!

```

For anyone who missed last month's edition, the question was:

*"What turbulent seas does Bancho sail through in order to deliver your messages?"*

> and the answer was: *cho.ppy.sh*. Get it, choppy as in turbulent? As terrible as this pun was, it was enough for squidstain to answer correctly and acquire themselves a free month of osu!supporter. A lot of you had very creative answers and we hope to see that level creativity continue with this month's question, courtesy of our trivia master [chromb](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10238680) and one of the trivia champs themselves (and previous month's winner), squidstain:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and the answer was: *cho.ppy.sh*. Get it, choppy as in turbulent? As terrible as this pun was, it was enough for squidstain to answer correctly and acquire themselves a free month of osu!supporter. A lot of you had very creative answers and we hope to see that level of creativity continues with this month's question, courtesy of our trivia master [chromb](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10238680) and one of the trivia champs themselves (and previous month's winner), squidstain:
```

**BYEAH (placeholder)**

> When we showed this question to [Ephemeral](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/102335) (the osu! community manager), they liked it so much both due to the difficulty and creativity, that they have decided to grace the first person to correctly answer with **3 months of osu!supporter!**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When we showed this question to [Ephemeral](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/102335) (the osu! community manager), they liked it so much both due to the difficulty and creativity, that they have decided to grace the first person to correctly answer with **3 months of osu!supporter**!
```

> Same rules apply, you have exactly 1 month after this news post goes up (or until the next news post is up, depending on the timing) to provide a correct answer via a comment, if no correct answer is provided by that time we will reveal the answer in the next edition and the prize will no longer be claimable. Good luck!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Same rules apply: you have exactly 1 month after this news post goes up (or until the next news post is up, depending on the timing) to provide a correct answer via a comment. If no correct answer is provided by that time we will reveal the answer in the next edition and the prize will no longer be claimable. Good luck!
```

## Things to look out for in January

> - Yet another LAN tourney is on the horizon. Organized by [Zeus-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5464437) with the support of [Boğaziçi University Gaming Club (BUOK)](http://buok.boun.edu.tr/), the very first iteration of **Bosphorus Invitational** aims to gather around some of the best circle clickers within the Turkish community at the border of the magnificent Bosphorus strait where the continents meet, for an epic 1 day showdown of Turkey's best players. While the participation is invite-only, feel free to either visit the venue on the 29th or check out the tournament via the [BUOK Twitch channel](https://www.twitch.tv/buoyunkulubu/) to keep the tabs on. See more on the details through the [forum post](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1696844), which is also [available in Turkish](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1696848)!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Yet another LAN tourney is on the horizon. Organised by [Zeus-](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5464437) with the support of [Boğaziçi University Gaming Club (BUOK)](http://buok.boun.edu.tr/), the very first iteration of **Bosphorus Invitational** aims to gather around some of the best circle clickers within the Turkish community at the border of the magnificent Bosphorus strait where the continents meet, for an epic 1-day showdown of Turkey's best players. While the participation is invite-only, feel free to either visit the venue on the 29th or check out the tournament via the [BUOK Twitch channel](https://www.twitch.tv/buoyunkulubu/) to keep the tabs on. See more details in the [forum post](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1696844), which is also [available in Turkish](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1696848)!
```

> - The [New Beginnings Art Contest](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2022-12-24-new-beginnings-voting-open) voting has concluded by the time you are reading this, and should have it's results posted. Go and check out all of the wonderful creations from the community, and if you previously put your votes in, check if the creations you voted for have made their way to the top!

Reviewer 2: already [announced on the last day of december](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2022-12-31-new-beginnings-results) :) 

with the dreamxiety section this is also already covered

```suggestion
```

> - For those of you who are ***Full Beatmap Nominators*** and have an interest in being a part of the [NAT](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team), they are going to be doing some specific osu! BN evaluating where the full BNs are able to "play NAT for a bit" from January 1 - 31, 2023. If you are interested, you might want to talk to your local NAT representative.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For those of you who are *full Beatmap Nominators* and have an interest in being a part of the [NAT](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team), they are going to be doing some specific osu! BN evaluating where the full BNs are able to "play NAT for a bit" during January 1 – 31, 2023. If you are interested, you might want to talk to your local NAT representative.
```

- Qualifiers for the [osu!mania 7K World Cup](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2022-12-15-osu-mania-7k-world-cup-2023-registrations-now-open) are starting on the 8th of January, so be sure to tune in if you are a fan of top tier mania gameplay!
- During January and February the [4 Digit 4K MWC 2023 tournament](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1671710?n=1) will be held, and while the gameplay might not be as top tier as the official World Cup, mania enjoyers might find themselves highly interested in this tournament as well.

## End word

> As always, thank you for reading this month's edition of osu!monthly. We hope that 2022 treated you well and that the new year brings even more splendors. If you have any questions, comments, concerns, or want to contribute don't hesitate to say something in the osu!dev discord. We thank you for an amazing reponse for half of the year and we hope this continues on for many more, it is not without you all creating community content that this cannot happen. Thank you, thank you, thank you!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As always, thank you for reading this month's edition of osu!monthly. We hope that 2022 treated you well and that the new year brings even more splendors. If you have any questions, comments, concerns, or want to contribute don't hesitate to say something in the [osu!dev Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/ppy). We thank you for the amazing response to osu!monthly during the last half of a year and we hope this continues on for many more years, it is with you all creating community content that this can even happen. Thank you, thank you, thank you!
```

> —0x84f, Blushing, ianpep, Patatitta, Pisapou, RandomeLoL, Wowcake, Xahlt

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
—0x84f, Blushing, ianpep, Patatitta, Pisapou, RandomeLoL, Wowcake & Xahlt
```

#### Article on SEV rating added to the wiki

The way in which the BNs were judged could seem incomprehensible sometimes for the general public until very recently, because [SEV rating](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team/SEV_rating), the measurement system for nomination reset severity, is now explained in detail on the wiki.

### Mapping highlight

Although, like most osu! players, you may be content with the beatmaps already installed on your computer, new extraordinary and trendy beatmaps are released every month and receive the Ranked status. That's why we decided to add this new section to osu!monthly to keep you up to date with the most popular beatmaps among mappers, players and even music enthusiasts.

By the way, even if we don't mention all the beatmaps that have been ranked this month, you should know that they are all great, and worth a visit. Don't hesitate to take a look at the beatmap section of the osu! website and check out the most recent beatmaps!

> #### Mighty Morphin Power Rangers by Sytho - Community's favorite

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Alakrity - Mighty Morphin Power Rangers mapped by Sytho - Community's favorite
```

#### Seishun Complex by \_kotachi\_ - Community's favorite

Another song that stood out this month is surely [kessoku band - Seishun Complex](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1863866) from the series *Bocchi the Rock!*, a manga recently adapted into anime. A song that the community liked a lot as shown in the "Popular Beatmaps" section of the home page in which this map has remained most of the month, thanks to [\_kotachi\_](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4698485) and all their GDers. We can also mention [kessoku band - Guitar to Kodoku to Aoi Hoshi](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1880007) of the same anime but mapped by [ponbot](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8939857) and their GDers, which was also very well received. Trendy song, loved by the community and mapped properly — a combo that works all the time.

> #### Heathens (Magnetude Bootleg) by funny - osu!monthly Mapping Team's favourite

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### twenty one pilots - Heathens (Magnetude Bootleg) mapped by funny - osu!monthly Mapping Team's favourite
```

It's a collab we've been waiting for a long time, and they sure didn't disappoint us! Some of the best tech mappers, including [0ppInOsu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12551840), [-Doodle](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12337329), [enryotoki](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10639122), [funny](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8473573), [Halgoh](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4109923), [Rorupan L9](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9471638), [Sharu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5597639) and [Xarr](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7262065), gathered around [twenty one pilots - Heathens (Magnetude Bootleg)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1851103) to show us once again what they are capable of. With a lively and rhythmic song, wonderfully represented by complex yet organised sliders, and a storyboard that just adds another dimension to the map, this collab definitely caught our eye!

> #### Song Compilation V by Sotarks - Bonus

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Various Artists - Song Compilation V mapped by Sotarks - Bonus
```
